---
layout: post
title: "Hey, it is hot here..."
date: 2019-11-01
---

June 11, 2019, the weather in San Francisco soared to 97 degrees Fahrenheit. It was hot. I was chilling on the couch
(not really, not chill at all) after I got home from work. It was hot and stuffy in the living. I wondered whether the voice
assistant connected to the thermostat at home could help me to cooler the space.

Hey, it is hot here.

I was expecting that Google could understand it and adjust the temperature for me.

It’s not hot right now in San Francisco. It’s 27 degrees*.

*27 degrees Celsius is around 81 degrees Fahrenheit.

My immediate thought was, “that’s sassy.” 27 degrees Celsius indoor at 9 pm is very hot to me.

Then, I subconsciously started to think, “what went wrong here?”

I personally think there might be two types of explanation—one is related to ASR (auto speech recognition) and the other one is related to natural language understanding.

It could be possible that the computer recognized my speech as a question rather than a statement, “is it hot here?” or “it is hot here?” with an rising intonation.

Or, the the computer did get the correct input that I said it was hot. However, it failed to understand the pragmatics in the sentence. The Gricean Maxims, purposed by a philosopher, Paul Grice, are four ways to explain how interlocutors in a conversation stay cooperative and achieve effective communication. However, in reality, people don’t usually mean what they say, people don’t usually say what they mean. In the dialogue I had with my voice assistant, “it is hot here” flouts the maxim of relation and the maxim of manner.

Another possible issue related to the computational understanding of natural language here is that it fails to understand what I mean by “here.” I was definitely not talking about the weather in San Francisco. Instead, I was referring to the room temperature in my house. The thermostat showed it was 90 degrees Fahrenheit :(

In the short future, I hope my voice assistant can understand what I really mean. Maybe we can have a conversation like this:

Hey Google, it is hot here.
Totally, is there anything I can do for you?
Turn on the AC./Set the room temperature at 75.

I hope that my voice assistant can agree with me rather than telling me they does not think so. To be fair, 81 degrees Fahrenheit is definitely not cool.

However, if one day it is “smart” enough, the voice assistant may be able to propose a solution in return.

Hey Google, it is hot here.
Ya, it seems the windows are closed. Do you want me to open the window for you?

The home automation system detects that all the window in my house are closed. It might (or might not) be windy or cooler outside, but opening the windows could be a solution.

Or, the home automation system detects that I usually turn on the AC when the room temperature is at that level. Then, they figures out that I am probably asking them to turn it on for me.

Hey Google, it is hot here.
Ya, it seems the AC is off. Do you want me to turn it on?

